Last hook which was new in React 17 is,
use the bug value,
which we did talk about for
a hot second in complete intro to React.
So here, well, first, I'll show you this,
we have this use debug value
example here and it's gonna say,
do you need a coat today, and
the answer is either yes or maybe.
And if I look at my react dev tools,
which again,
this is built into code sandbox here but
this is the same dev tools that
you might download from Chrome and
I click here on debug value component
If it loads, Try refreshing it again.
There we go.
So notice this part where it says,
is not ringing.
Basically what you use
this debug value here,
is so that in your dev tools
you can expose a custom
debugging value for your custom hooks.
So debugging custom hooks that's what you
use debug value for, if you're not in
a custom hook don't use this even
if you are doing the custom hooks.
Again, I'm gonna say this is typically for
library authors and or
like a design system sort
of situation typically,
you can just look in your own custom
hook and figure out what's going on.
This is more useful for like, hey,
I know someone that's not me is going to
later use this custom hook and they might
need some internal debugging value
that they can't introspect themselves.
I'm going to use,
use debug value to surface something
that's interesting to them right?
So this particular case,
do you need a coat today, it's just doing
math not random, and if it's raining
it says yes, and if it's raining,
it says maybe and the debug value here
is I'm trying to surface what is,
is raining, because that's not immediately
obvious from looking at the code.
So today it says that it is not raining so
therefore it says maybe here, but
if I refresh that,
it might say something different,
so today it is raining, so
therefore it says yes there.
So again, if you're making your own custom
hooks, you can typically just mess with
your own custom hooks and do your
console logs and all that kinda stuff.
It's that if your packaging you custom
hooks, and giving it to someone else and
you need to give them some debugging
information, that's when you would use,
use debug value, that's it.
That is all the hooks in React 17 that
are built into React itself everything
else you can just kind of combine and all
the various different hooks together to
get the interesting
functionality that you need.
There are more hooks coming in React 18,
the most useful that I think we
might use this one called use ID,
which will generate like a GUID for you,
so that you can use that for keys, right?
That'll be kind of useful,
it'll be really useful for hydrating, so
you'll generate something on the server
and then you'll have your react
bootstrap and you can guarantee that
the ID on both sides is gonna be the same.
That's where user IDs can be helpful, they
have some other ones coming that they're
talking about but they haven't settled
what they're going to do with them yet?
So we'll talk about that in React,
Intermediate React 55,
whenever that happens.